Add API documentation for SafeGraph Patterns (#274)
cmu-delphi/delphi-epidata: docs/api/covidcast-signals/safegraph.md

grand_parent: COVIDcast API
---

This data source uses data reported by [SafeGraph](https://www.safegraph.com/)

> using anonymized location data from mobile phones. We provide multiple signals based on different datasets provided to eligible researchers who obtain an API key by SafeGraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using anonymized location data from mobile phones. Safegraph provides several different datasets to eligible researchers. We surface signals from two such datasets.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta}

1. TOC
{:toc}
```

# SafeGraph Social Distancing Metrics

* **Source name:** `safegraph`
* **First issued:** 23 June 2020
* **Number of data revisions since 23 June 2020:** 0
* **Date of last change:** never
* **Available for:** county, state (see [geography coding docs](../covidcast_geography.md))

Data source based on [social
distancing metrics](https://docs.safegraph.com/docs/social-distancing-metrics). 
SafeGraph provides this data for

> individual census block groups, using differential privacy to protect the

Reviewer 2: "using differential privacy to protect individual people's privacy in data"

Make it consistent with the other portion. Also, can you clarify what you mean by "in data"? 
1. does it just mean data privacy? If so it can be reworded as 
    "using differential privacy to protect individual people's data privacy"

2.  if it means something else then maybe we should make sure we clarify what sort of data

Author: Thanks. Will reword it.

grand_parent: COVIDcast API
---

This data source uses data reported by [SafeGraph](https://www.safegraph.com/)
using anonymized location data from mobile phones. Safegraph provides several different datasets to eligible researchers. We surface signals from two such datasets.

> # Table of contents

Reviewer 3: A formatting comment: There should be a title at the top of the page labeling this as the SafeGraph source, in line with the `title` field:

```
# SafeGraph
{: .no_toc}
```

The table of contents and all headings below should be one level deeper -- that is, the table of contents and the two big SafeGraph headings should be `##`, and anything under them should be `###`.

That matches how we do the other source pages and makes the Markdown formatting look right

Author: Thanks. I have updated it. Can you help check whether it seems correct now?

SafeGraph provides this data with a three-day lag, meaning estimates for a
specific day are only available three days later. It may take up to an
additional day for SafeGraph's data to be ingested into the COVIDcast API.

# SafeGraph Weekly Patterns

* **Source name:** `safegraph`
* **Number of data revisions since 23 June 2020:** 0
* **Date of last change:** never
* **Available for:** county, MSA, HRR, state (see [geography coding docs](../covidcast_geography.md))

Data source based on
[Weekly Patterns](https://docs.safegraph.com/docs/weekly-patterns) dataset. SafeGraph provides this data for
different points of interest ([POIs](https://docs.safegraph.com/v4.0/docs#section-core-places)) considering individual census block groups, using differential privacy to protect individual people's privacy in data.

> Delphi gathers the number of daily visits to POIs of certain types(bars, restaurants, etc.) 

Reviewer 2: If you use an acronym (POI in this case) then you should clarify what it means if it is the first time it is used on this page. A bit redundant since most know what POI is, but for the sake of those that don't, style rules ask that acronyms be worded vs shortened. 

The same could be said for the first use of MSA and HRR at the top of this section, should also be done for each page when first referenced on that given page.

Author: This is referenced because SafeGraph has its own list of points of interests where people can find them through the links. And this is also [how](https://docs.safegraph.com/docs/places-schema) Safegraph first introduced the idea of POI. I think this is different from MSA, HRR?

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, thanks for clarifying. 

The MSA and HRR would be a separate comment then. Where the acronym, for clarity's sake, should be spelled out with the acronym beside it. The same way you introduce a name (i.e. Bernard and Shaw Rentals (B&SR) at the top of an article and then use only the condensed version after (B&SR). Of course, using condensed titles is dependent on stylistic preferences, but wouldn't hurt for this page and already published pages as well (which I have noted in the API review that I am conducting).

Author: Thanks!

> from SafeGraph Weekly Patterns data at the 5-digit ZipCode level, then aggregates and reports these features to the county, MSA, HRR, and state levels. The aggregated data is freely available through the COVIDcast API.

Reviewer 2: Should probably say "SafeGraph's Weekly Patterns data". I am assuming "Weekly Patterns" belongs to SafeGraph in this sentence based on how it is used. If I am incorrect and the whole thing is simply a title scratch this comment.

For precise definitions of the quantities below, consult the [SafeGraph Weekly 
Patterns documentation](https://docs.safegraph.com/docs/weekly-patterns).

| Signal | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `bars_visit_num` | The number of daily visits to bar-related POIs in a certain region |
| `bars_visit_prop` | The number of daily visits to bar-related POIs in a certain region, per 100,000 population |
| `restaurants_visit_num` | The number of daily visits to restaurant-related POIs in a certain region |

> | `restaurants_visit_prop` | The number of daily visits to bar-related POIs in a certain region, per 100,000 population |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `restaurants_visit_prop` | The number of daily visits to restaurant-related POIs in a certain region, per 100,000 population |
```

> SafeGraph delivers the number of daily visits to U.S. POIs, the details of which are described in 

Reviewer 2: Grammatical edit:
"described in the [Places Manua]"

Author: Oh, it's not a grammar issue. It is how SafeGraph names this dataset https://docs.safegraph.com/docs/places-manual

Reviewer 2: Sorry I should have clarified that I simply added "the" before the link [Places Manual]

Author: Oh, got it. Thanks.

[Places Manual](https://readme.safegraph.com/docs/places-manual#section-placekey) dataset. 

> Delphi aggregates the number of visits from specific places to certain types of places, such as 

Reviewer 2: Should we have an example for specific places?
Example:
Delphi aggregates the number of visits from specific places (i.e. named places such as LLL Bar and XX Restaurant) to certain types of places (i.e. bars and restaurants).

Reviewer: We should list the NAICs codes that are included in each pair of signals.

Author: Added.

observation to the county-level distribution. `n` also serves as the sample
size. The same method is used for aggregation to states.

### Lag

SafeGraph provides this data with a three-day lag, meaning estimates for a
specific day are only available three days later. It may take up to an
additional day for SafeGraph's data to be ingested into the COVIDcast API.

## SafeGraph Weekly Patterns

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **First issued:** 20 November 2020
```

Delphi gathers the number of daily visits to POIs of certain types(bars, restaurants, etc.) 
from SafeGraph' Weekly Patterns data at the 5-digit ZipCode level, then aggregates and reports these features to the county, MSA, HRR, and state levels. The aggregated data is freely available through the COVIDcast API.

For precise definitions of the quantities below, consult the [SafeGraph Weekly 
Patterns documentation](https://docs.safegraph.com/docs/weekly-patterns).

| Signal | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `bars_visit_num` | The number of daily visits to bar-related POIs in a certain region |
| `bars_visit_prop` | The number of daily visits to bar-related POIs in a certain region, per 100,000 population |
| `restaurants_visit_num` | The number of daily visits to restaurant-related POIs in a certain region |
| `restaurants_visit_prop` | The number of daily visits to restaurant-related POIs in a certain region, per 100,000 population |

SafeGraph delivers the number of daily visits to U.S. POIs, the details of which are described in 
the [Places Manual](https://readme.safegraph.com/docs/places-manual#section-placekey) dataset. 

> Delphi aggregates the number of visits from specific places to certain types of places, such as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delphi aggregates the number of visits to certain types of places, such as 
```

> bars (places with NAICS code = 722410) and restaurants (places with NAICS code = 722511). For example, Adagio Teas belongs to the first group while Napkin Burger is considered to be a restaurant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bars (places with [NAICS code = 722410](https://www.census.gov/cgi-bin/sssd/naics/naicsrch?input=722410&search=2017+NAICS+Search&search=2017)) and restaurants (places with [NAICS code = 722511](https://www.census.gov/cgi-bin/sssd/naics/naicsrch)). For example, Adagio Teas is coded as a bar because it serves alcohol, while Napkin Burger is considered to be a full-service restaurant.
More information on NAICS codes is available from the [US Census Bureau: North American Industry Classification System](https://www.census.gov/eos/www/naics/index.html).
```

observation to the county-level distribution. `n` also serves as the sample
size. The same method is used for aggregation to states.

### Lag

SafeGraph provides this data with a three-day lag, meaning estimates for a
specific day are only available three days later. It may take up to an
additional day for SafeGraph's data to be ingested into the COVIDcast API.

## SafeGraph Weekly Patterns

* **First issued:** 20 November 2020
* **Number of data revisions since 23 June 2020:** 0
* **Date of last change:** never
* **Available for:** county, MSA, HRR, state (see [geography coding docs](../covidcast_geography.md))

Data source based on
[Weekly Patterns](https://docs.safegraph.com/docs/weekly-patterns) dataset. SafeGraph provides this data for
different points of interest ([POIs](https://docs.safegraph.com/v4.0/docs#section-core-places)) considering individual census block groups, using differential privacy to protect individual people's data privacy.

Delphi gathers the number of daily visits to POIs of certain types(bars, restaurants, etc.) 

> from SafeGraph' Weekly Patterns data at the 5-digit ZipCode level, then aggregates and reports these features to the county, MSA, HRR, and state levels. The aggregated data is freely available through the COVIDcast API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from SafeGraph's Weekly Patterns data at the 5-digit ZipCode level, then aggregates and reports these features to the county, MSA, HRR, and state levels. The aggregated data is freely available through the COVIDcast API.
```
